---
title: Test Your Knowledge of Drivechain
show_author: true
comments: true
date: 2022-06-01 01:00:00
---


...with this quiz.

Originally presented to the [bitcoin-dev mailing list](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-February/019998.html). (Only ZmnSCPxj answered, and he did not do particularly well.)

Here it is:

### Section 1

<ol start="0">
  <li>We could change DC to make miner-theft impossible, by making it a layer1 consensus rule that miners never steal. Why is this cure worse than the disease?</li>
  <li>If 100% hashrate wanted to steal coins from a DC sidechain *as quickly as possible*, how long would this take (in blocks)?</li>
  <li>Per sidechain per year (ie, per 52560 blocks), how many DC withdrawals can take place (maximum)? How many can be attempted?</li>
    <ul><li>(Ie, how does the 'train track metaphor' work, from ~1h5m in the "Overview and Misconceptions" video)?</li></ul>
  <li>Only two types of people should ever be using the DC withdrawal system at all.</li>
    <ol>
      <li>Which two?</li>
      <li>How is everyone else, expected to move their coins from chain to chain?</li>
      <li>(Obviously, this improves UX.) But why does it also improve security?</li>
    </ol>
</ol>


### Section 2

<ol start="4">
  <li>What do the parameters b and m stand for (in the DC security model)?</li>
  <li>How can m possibly be above 1? Give an example of a sidechain-attribute which may cause this situation to arise.</li>
  <li>For which range of m, is DC designed to deter sc-theft?</li>
  <li>If DC could be changed to magically deter theft across all ranges of m, why would that be bad for sidechain users in general?</li>
</ol>


### Section 3

<ol start="8">
  <li>If imminent victims of a DC-based theft, used a mainchain UASF to prohibit the future theft-withdrawal, then how would this affect non-DC users?</li>
  <li>In what ways might the BTC network one day become uncompetitive? And how is this different from caring about a sidechain's m and b?</li>
</ol>

### Section 4

<ol start="10">
  <li>If DC were successful, Altcoin-investors would be harmed. Two Maximalist-groups would also be slightly harmed -- who are these?</li>
</ol>


Should I provide the answers?? Well, most of the answers are somewhere on drivechain.info -- try the Peer Review section or the FAQ or the original spec.